## ResNet neural network hyperparameter tuning for Rigid Pavement Failure Assessment
Abstract— Rigid pavement roads do not have adequate maintenance, since the inspection stage is carried out "manually", which is not reliable or efficient, as well as requiring a greater amount of labor, time, and high cost. To solve the problem, it is proposed to evaluate the rigid pavement condition using ResNet neural networks with images obtained through a conventional 2D camera. The objective of the work was to recognize three types of failures in the rigid pavement: joint peeling, corner peeling, and corner crack. For the preprocessing phase I use image normalization and resizing, the number of images was increased through geometric transformations by 12.21%. A convolutional neural network of ResNet-18 type architecture was used. As a learning transfer technique, model tuning was used, since we not only changed the output network, but also the hyperparameters of the convolutional layers. The contribution of the present work was the refinement of the hyperparameters for the modification of the ResNet-18 neural network taking into account the iteration in the learning rate that goes from 1e-4 to 1e-2. The results were: accuracy 88.73%, sensitivity 81.63%, a specificity of 92.47%, the precision of 85.10%, and finally an F1 score of 83.33%. Three of the model's evaluation indices have values higher than 0.71 while the fourth has a value of 0.55, which indicates that there will be a good performance with the proposed model. This work can be improved by increasing the number of images or by making a hybrid model.
## Conclusions
Rigid pavement roads suffer deterioration due to use and weather conditions. Currently, the data collection and interpretation process is done "manually". The visual inspection procedure is neither routine nor coherent as it is strongly influenced by the subjectivity of the people who perform it. Therefore, in this article, the hyperparameter adjustment of a ResNet-18 network was carried out for the classification of failures in the rigid pavement in 3 categories: joint peeling, corner peeling, and corner crack. For this, we worked with 625 original images and 87 modified images, the process of normalization of strange objects, shadows, resizing of the images to 500x500 pixels, and the images were rebalanced in their different categories. The hyperparameter that was adjusted to obtain an optimal result was the iteration range in the learning rate, this range was established from 1e-04 and the maximum is 1e-2. The results obtained in percentage were the following: accuracy 88.73%, sensitivity 81.63%, a specificity of 92.47%, the precision of 85.10%, and finally an F1 score of 83.33%. When evaluating the reliability of the proposed model, three of the indices provide values higher than 0.71, which is why they are considered that the proposed model will provide good performance, while the fourth index, which has a value of 0.55, indicates acceptable performance. Based on this article we can project the following studies: use of ResNet models of different numbers of layers, a hybrid neural network model taking the convolutional part from ResNet, and other algorithms such as SVM or XGBoost for the classification part. Likewise, this model could be improved by increasing the number of images for the training and validation phases, although it is true that there are images of faults in asphalt, there are few images available of faults in the rigid pavement.
